e
for for
see
e
for
for for
you
e
for
for for
you
of procedure I invite the following
briefers to participate in this meeting
Miss Rosemary de Caro under secret
general for political and peace building
Affairs and Miss Lisa dtin director of
financing and partnership Division
office for the coordination of
humanitarian
Affairs it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the
agenda I now give the floor to miss
Rosemary dealo
Mr
President members of the security
Council and increasing tensions in the
Middle East the devastating Israeli
attack on the elban school in Gaza City
which prompted this meeting points once
again to the desperate need to reach a
ceasefire free the hostages and scale up
humanitarian Aid to
Gaza the Israel Defense Forces air
strike in the Alban School compound took
place early on 10 August it killed
dozens of Palestinians and wounded many
others including women and children
according to local Palestinian
sources the Secretary General condemned
the continued loss of life in Gaza
following another attack on a school
Sheltering hundreds of displaced
Palestinian
families according to Israel the IDF
targeted a Hamas Command Center in a
mosque inside the school compound and
killed at least 31 Hamas and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad
Fighters as the Secretary General
underlined yesterday International
humanitarian law including the
principles of Distinction
proportionality and precautions in
attack must be upheld at all times also
yesterday Hamas announced the killing of
a hostage and serious injury of two
other Hamas
others by Hamas militants while in
captivity in Gaza both sides have stated
they are looking into the
incidents Mr President with hostilities
continuing across the strip including in
the north around Gaza City in the middle
area in con Yunis and in and around Rafa
the situation remains catastrophic for
civilians no place is safe in Gaza yet
Civ I Ians continue to be ordered to
evacuate to ever shrinking
areas my colleague director Doon from OA
will brief you shortly in more detail
regarding the dire humanitarian
conditions in
Gaza 10 months since the start of the
war the threat of further Regional
escalation is more palpable and chilling
than ever exchanges of fire across the
Blue Line have continued nearly
daily since I last brief on 31 July
numerous projectiles have been fired
from Lebanon across the Blue Line
causing damage to buildings and
bushfires in open areas the IDF has
responded with strikes across the blue
line into Southern
Lebanon uncrewed aerial Vehicles
crossing the blue line from Southern
Lebanon have also continued an IDF base
was hit across the Blue Line while yet
while another base was hit near naria
and North norn Israel an open area in
naria city was also
struck Mr President I urge continued
attention to the worsening situation and
ongoing violence in the occupied West
Bank including East Jerusalem on 3
August the IDF said it conducted two air
strikes on a Hamas cell in taram killing
nine Palestinians who the IDF said were
planning to conduct an attack inside
Israel
separate IDF operations in Janine and
tubas early last week also killed
another 16
Palestinians on 11 August a shooting
attack claimed by Hamas killed one
Israeli civilian and wounded another in
the northern Jordan Valley in the
occupied West
Bank another Palestinian shooting attack
now cilia reportedly injured one Israeli
and two Palestinians the as salant who
was claimed by Hamas as an alassan
brigades Commander was subsequently
killed by
ISF Mr president if the slide towards an
even greater catastrophe is to be halted
the parties must end all escalatory
rhetoric and actions I reiterate the
secretary General's call for all to work
vigorously towards Regional deescalation
in the interest of long-term peace and
stability I welcome
efforts by Egypt Qatar and the United
States to bring both sides to conclude a
deal to bring about a ceasefire the
release of hostages and desperately
needed humanitarian
relief as the leaders of Egypt katar and
the United States emphasized in their
joint statement on 8 August and I quote
there is no further time to waste nor
excuses from any party for further delay
end quote
their call for immediate relief to the
people of Gaza and the hostages and
their families must be heated I urge all
parties to prioritize the protection of
civilians and promptly conclude this
deal as endorsed by the security Council
in resolution
2735 the United Nations is committed to
supporting all efforts towards this goal
and remains in close contact with the
relevant
parties Mr President
The Killing destruction and suffering in
Gaza must end the hostages must be
United with their
families but even as efforts to achieve
these goals continue we cannot lose
sight of what we consider
indisputable in the absence of a clear
path towards a future in which Israelis
see their legitimate needs for security
materialize and Palestinians see their
legitimate aspir erations for a fully
independent viable and sovereign state
realized lasting peace in the Middle
East will remain elusive thank you Mr
President I thank Miss car Deo for uh
briefing I now give the floor to Miss
Lisa
dotin thank you Mr President members of
the security Council here we are again
in the aftermath of yet another
horrendous episode in this brutal war in
Gaza like under Secretary General Dar
Carlo were deeply horrified by the
strike on alabin school in Adar by
Israeli forces on Saturday the school
was Sheltering several hundred displaced
families many of whom had moved there
because of recent evacuation orders and
the strike was conducted during Dawn
prayers initial report suggests this was
one of the deadliest attacks on a school
Sheltering displaced people since the
start of this conflict tragically this
is far from an isolated in incident
indeed such attacks appear to be
occurring with increasing frequency the
most recent in incidents include three
schools hit within 48 hours between 3
and four August and two schools hit on 8
August all in Gaza City with alabin on
Saturday the latest such attack
according to ohchr this is at least the
21st strike on a school that has been
serving as a shelter recorded since Four
July this year scor scores of people
have been killed in these strikes among
them women and
children Mr President sadly these large
scale incidents are only some of the
Myriad of ways in which this horrendous
conflict is causing unbearable suffering
and
Devastation unremitting violence in Gaza
has now killed almost 40,000
Palestinians and injured more than
90,000 others according to the Gaza
Ministry of Health some 10,000 people
remain unaccounted for and are thought
to be buried under the
rubble and as of 9 August an estimated
115 hostages remain captive in Gaza
despite repeated demands for their
release including hostages who've been
declared dead and whose remains are in
Gaza the health situation Gaza remains
critical and the Health Care system is
barely functional providing brave but
limited support for the injured and the
sick for the women and childbirth and
against rapidly spreading disease
thousands of patients in critical
condition are on waiting list for
medical
evacuations more than 60% of residential
buildings and 65% of the road Network
have been damaged or destroyed according
to un recent analysis in just two weeks
more than a quarter of a million people
have been displaced often on multiple
occasions evacuation orders supposedly
for civilian security are clearly having
the opposite
outcome civilians are repeatedly asked
to evacuate to areas where Essentials
for their survival are absent they're
repeatedly being killed and injured in
the very places they've been told were
safe to go shelters and displacement
camps are reportedly used for military
purposes by Palestinian armed groups
exposing those Sheltering there to
terrible danger overcrowding in these
places is putting immense strain on
already severely stretched Water
Sanitation and hygiene facilities acute
respiratory infections diarrheal
illnesses acute ja syndrome and skin
infections are all surging and very
worryingly with school immunization
programs practically impossible polio
looms as a new threat after six
circulating polio virus strains were
detected in environmental samples in
June as a matter of urgency health
workers must be allowed to carry out an
immunization
campaign this war is destroying lives
dreams and Futures more than half a
million students have lost an entire
academ mic year with 39,000 students
missing their final exams even if this
war were to end today we estimate that
at least 8 and 10 schools would require
Rehabilitation and we must not discount
the immense emotional and psychological
trauma this war has had on children
indeed people of all ages trauma they
will carry for the rest of their lives
it Bears repeating there's no protection
of civilians in Gaza alongside the
Relentless Mass displacement within Gaza
many thousands of Palestinians have left
and many more are trying to as this
conflict persists and lives are
threatened daily civilians must be
allowed to seek protection those
displaced must also be guaranteed the
right to voluntarily return what we're
seeing in Gaza is a result of a war
waged with pitiful if any regard for the
requirements of international law I
share the secretary General's and others
deep concern about violations of
international humanitarian law being
committed throughout this conflict Mr
President in the middle of the spiraling
catastrophe in Gaza the humanitarian
Community doggedly continues efforts to
mount an effective response we do what
we can to increase food assistance
provide education support and boost
Hospital capacity efforts are also
ongoing to avert the spread of polio and
Senior un officials continue discussions
with st stakeholders including senior
Israeli officials to increase the flow
of Aid into the Gaza Strip and improve
conditions for the delivery on the
ground however as things stand access
constraints and high levels of
insecurity severely hamper the
humanitarian response Aid in triaza has
more than haved since the Rafa ground
operation began and Rafa Crossing was
abruptly closed in early May new limits
imposed by Israeli Authorities on
bringing cash to Gaza are significantly
limiting the resources available for
operations fuel shortages mean Water
Supplies have fallen as low as 2 lers
per person per day far below the 15
liters required organized crime and
looting along the Route used by
humanitarians dispatching cargo from Kum
Shalom Crossing continue to hinder Aid
delivery access to people in need
remains a challenge the increase in
bureaucratic and administrative
impediments such as delays in Visa
issuance and renewals for broader
Operational Support and management is
severely impacting the response and our
concerns for the safety of Staff keep
growing with attacks on or near Aid
vehicles that have been coordinated On
The Rise recently within a 12-day period
there's been four shooting incidents
involving un convoys including on a
vehicle carrying children on their way
to be reunited with their father Nos and
the Palestinian red cresant all report
similar attacks the result is that
hundreds of thousands of people are not
getting the life-saving humanitarian
assistance they so desperately need Mr
President how much longer can this
continue how many more tragedies such as
the one in altab beim school must happen
before action is taken can this Council
look at the children the people of Gaza
and all those affected by this war in
the eye as humanitarian workers have to
do every single day and swear that no
stone has been left unturned to end
their suffering
the Urgent requirements so often
repeated remain the same first an
immediate cessation of hostilities and
sustained ceasefire secondly strict
adherence to International humanitarian
law by all sides this entails releasing
all hostages it also entails protecting
civilians and meeting their essential
needs including by ensuring the
unhindered provision of humanitarian
assistance throughout Gaza as ordered by
the international court of justice
including through unra and lastly we
have said before in this context all
member states must use all of their
leverage to prevent and stop violations
of international humanitarian law
including through diplomatic and
economic pressure and conditioning arms
exports on compliance with the rules of
war and cooperation in combating
impunity we must remain we must remember
that this is now one of the several
conflicts in Gaza over the years which
humanitarians have had to respond to
conflict at the population in Gaza was
never afforded the ability to recover
from or repair the past 10 months have
destroyed what little hope for a future
existed for any surviving child I urge
this Council and all member states to
use your influence to protect civilians
and bring an end to this conflict and
its intolerable toll it's imperative
that Mutual Security and Lasting peace
is pursued so that hope can be restored
so that civilians there can enjoy the
hope that we take for granted
and the hope that they have never
experienced thank you Mr
President I thank M dtin for her
briefing I now give the floor to those
council members who wish to make
statement I give the floor to the
representative of
Algeria Mr President
I thank
USG Mrs Rosemary De Carlo and OA
director Mrs liisa dton for their
briefing I will start my
statement by the same question
of Mrs Bon how long
is it going to be
yet another ineffective
Vain and hopeless meeting of the
security
Council are we going to count and
count the number of
death in
Gaza the answer is
simple this is neither what the council
is des designed
for nor what the International
Community expect from
us more
importantly this is not how the council
should
address the Palestinians
plea the Palestinians Quest For
Justice the Palestinian right to exist
our
Council has the legal and moral primary
responsibility to act and to act
firmly to shoulder its
mandate in
preserving International Peace and
security Mr President for 300
and 11
day our
Council has been constantly fooled and
disregarded while an entire
population has been subjected to a
collective
punishment last
Saturday the world woke
up to yet another horrific horrific
Bloodshed after the
Israeli occupying
power targeted deliber
deliberately a
school in a Dar neighborhood in
Gaza it was the third School
bombed in two
days it was a civilian
structure Sheltering
civilian by the testimony of the
International
Community our Secretary
General said it
clearly the school was Sheltering
hundreds of displaced Palestinian
families
the eurom made human humanitarian right
monitor also
stressed that the school was
nothing but a dilapitated
place that hundreds of families have
taken refuge
in this
testimonies of one of the
Survivor is
harrowing a father
said that he has been
given 18
kilogram 18
kilogram of body
parts and he buried
them as the body of his young son
Mr
President this heinous Massacre of a
daraj and the previous
ones wouldn't have been possible without
the generous financial and Military
assistance freely
provided to the Israel
aggressive more than 100 innocent like
lives were s sacrificed in ad
Dar among them women and
children in addition to the nearly
40,000 40,000 Palestinian martys so
far were these martys not
human with their
dreams with their
hopes as as we all
do is the council's
role limited to keeping a record of lost
lives
again the answer is
simple our
Council must and now fulfill its
responsibilities and honor its
commitment if its responsibility to
tackle the root cause of the Palestinian
question which is the illegal occupation
of the Palestinian
land it's a responsibility to hold the
occupying
power
accountable accountable using all legal
means and
including sanctions yes sanction
mechanism
third its commitment to achieve a just
and Lasting peace in the Middle
East and to
prevent the dangerous escalation
provoked by the Israeli occupying
power Mr President the Israeli occupying
power
continue to defy the very commitment of
this
Council made in resolution
2735 calling for the
implementation of an immediate ceasefire
in Gaza immediate ceasefire in
Gaza this
resolution
jeopardized is seriously jeopardized by
the int intensifying aggression of the
Israeli occupying power against
Gaza Algeria warns
against this continuing sabotage of
effort
made by the United
States Egypt and
Qatar to implement this resolution
urgently
and
effectively in this
regard Algeria Express
again its
support for the mediation effort made by
these three
countries there is no
room for delaying or over
complicating
negotiation by adding
new conditionalities
or new
demand engaging in good
faith in the is initiative of President
Biden is Paramount to achieving the long
awaited
ceasefire Mr
President for the sake of Humanity's
value we must act
now our inaction is costing
life
it's and jeopardizing the
destiny of whole people the Palestinian
people I thank
you I thank the representative of
Algeria for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
Slovenia thank you thank you very much
Mr President and thank you for
organizing this surgent meeting as
requested by Algeria uh I also want to
uh thank uh under Secretary General De
Carlo as well as director Doon for their
briefings today uh Mr President this
Saturday the world was once again Shell
Shocked by another devastating air
strike in Gaza one of the deadliest
months yet Slovenia strongly condemns
the Israeli attack on alabin school pool
in central Gaza City in complete
disregard for the faith of Palestinian
lives there are serious claims that
Hamas is embedding itself among the
civilian population in civilian
infrastructure we strongly condemn such
actions Hamas must stop sacrificing
their fellow Palestinians and putting
them in Mortal
Danger on the other hand we are
horrified by the serious of military
attacks on school
that we have witnessed
recently we repeat our call for full
respect of international law including
security Council resolution
2601 just yesterday we marked 75 years
of Geneva conventions which are being
seriously tested these days in Gaza and
in other
complexs Slovenia is Gravely concerned
about the potential for tensions to
spiral further out of control into a
broader regional conflict
with devastating consequences Beyond
gaza's borders we call for maximum
restraint by All actors in the region to
prevent us from going down a road of no
return there is an urgent need to
refrain from further attacks
unthreatening
rhetorics
colleagues the resolution this Council
needs to focus on as a priority is
2735 we express our full support to the
m mediators and their call on both sides
to conclude talks on a CIS fire and the
release of hostages and
prisoners in this regard we call on both
sides to resume the negotiations this
week we call on both sides to commit to
concluding the deal without
delay it has been more than two months
since the council demanded a
ceasefire we have been patiently waiting
for the implementation of our
resolutions meanwhile we have been
witnessing a continuation of deadly
attacks and civilian
casualties and we have been observing
Palestinians being chased across
Gaza there is no more time to spare
there are no more innocent lives to be
wasted we once again propose that the
council establishes a clear deadline for
the conclusion of the
deal in in this interim period a pause
in the fighting should be observed a
pause that would allow for humanitarian
Aid to be delivered at scale and for
polio vaccinations to be administered
safely we welcome the efforts of who
UNICEF and unra in outlining plans for
two rounds of polio
vaccination if a deal is however not
reached this councel should without
delay discuss how to ensure compliance
with each its resolutions in the face of
immense suffering in
Gaza and indeed as director dton said we
should not leave any stone and
turn Mr President yesterday a journalist
asked me how many more briefings this
Council needs to start changing the
situation in Gaza
indeed we are receiving briefings so
that we can take action we adopted four
resolutions but never followed up on
their
implementation the time for Action is
now it is time for ceasefire to be
finally reached or else it is time for
this Council to ensure it finally
happens thank
you I thank the representative of
Slovenia for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
mosambik Mr
President mmek wishes to commend
Algeria for requesting this
meeting we praise sier Leon
presidency for convening this urgent
briefing on the situation in the Middle
East including the Palestinian
question we are regretful to miss Rosary
De Carlo and Secretary General and Miss
Lisa doen a representative of what
for their briefing to the
council Mr
President the ongoing conflict in the
Middle
East has been
causing devastating
consequences and
unacceptable toll on
children women and the civilian gazan
population at Large
the latest
killings took the lives of more than 100
Palestinians it is imperative that
urgent efforts be undertaken in order to
address and stop these
killings we are deeply
concerned over the Israel's continuous
air strikes
against civilian
infrastructures that include
schools
hospitals and
shelters that's inflicting on them
severe
damage in this
connection we wish to
remind once
again that attacks on civilians and
civilian
infrastructure constitute a grave
violation of international law and
international humanitarian
law and this is particularly
disturbing as we celebrate this year the
75th
anniversary of the Geneva
conventions we call on all those who
sincerely
believe in the obligations arising from
the premises
of responsibility to
protect to ensure that this
Doctrine is
swiftly and coherently applied to Gaza
situation on the other
hand indiscriminate military
attacks can only aggravate Regional
conflicts and Trigger new conflicts that
will gain a larger
Dimension unimaginable implication for
regional and International Peace and
security could
ensue given the gravity of the
situation it is imperative that all
parties
involved particularly
Israel comply with International legal
norms and
agreements in
particular they must abide by all orders
and
judgments enacted by the international
court of justice on the
matter we reiterate our
call for an immediate end to this
war we urged parties to implement
without
reservation and without further delay
all Security Council
resolution that we have taken on this
conflict as advocates of Peace security
and humanitarian Aid it is
crucial that we undersood the
importance of
raising awareness about this is
heartbreaking
events
described by our
briefers Mr
President we hold the
view that the resolving this conflict in
the Gaza strep and
Palestine requires approach
encompassing
negotiations this approach must must
include plans for economic
development humanitarian Aid
reconstruction of Gaza and Regional
collaboration these are the necessary
steps that will P the way towards a
lasting and sustainable
peace we therefore
embrace the move for a concerted global
action to end Israel's military
operation in Gaza which is expanding
exponentially with the untold suffering
of the
Palestinian
people in this
context mosambi reaffirms its
commitment to supporting all diplomatic
efforts and AED at finding sustainable
solution to the protracted conflict in
the Gaza Street and the
Palestine we
reiterate our full support for the
ongoing diplomatic
efforts by the United States of America
Egypt Qatar and other Arab countries as
well as the International Community at
large in pursuit of a lasting
solution to the protracted conflict in
the Gaza
Street Mr
President mosambi remain stf first in
our recognition of the inalienable right
of the Palestinian people to
selfdetermination
political Independence and sovereignty
as described by the charter of the
United Nations and the dictates of
international
law we
reiterate the urgent need for the
implementation of a two-state
solution a solution based on the
existence of two independent and
sovereign states Israel and
Palestine living side by side in peace
and
security both as members of the United
Nations I thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
mozek for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of the
United
Kingdom thank you
president I thank under Secretary
General D Caro and director Dalton from
AER for their
briefings president the UK is appalled
by the Israeli military strike on alaban
school where Palestinian civilians were
shelter
Sheltering the UN tells us this strike
killed dozens of Palestinians many of
whom are reported to be women and
children sadly this was not the only
Israeli strike on schools turned
shelters we have
seen there were 17 such attacks in July
alone
Palestinians have nowhere safe to turn
86% of Gaza is now under evacuation
orders and in recent days we've seen
some of the largest orders to date
impacting tens of thousands of people
displaced multiple times
over families are forced to move back
and forth back and forth but with none
of these places offering the safety or
security they so desperately need
on top of that some of these orders have
been issued by Israel in the middle of
the night with minimal notice to allow
civilians to
flee Israel must ensure it complies with
its obligations under International
humanitarian law to protect
civilians the UK is also horrified by
the reports of sexual violence and abuse
faced by the hostages in Gaza and
Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli
DET Det attention many of whom are
children Hamas must release all the
hostages
immediately Hamas must also stop
endangering
civilians and Israel must Grant the icrc
access to prisoners immediately and
ensure accountability if anyone is found
to be responsible for the abuse of
Deton we have also heard completely
unacceptable rhetoric from Israeli
ministers relating to the mistreatment
of Deton and starvation of civilians in
Gaza we call upon the government of
Israel to retract and condemn these
remarks international law could not be
more
clear systemic mistreatment of Deton and
the international starvation of
civilians are war
crimes
president another deadly threat is on
the horizon for the people of Gaza
they stand on the precipice of a polio
outbreak with 600,000 children under the
age of eight in desperate need of
vaccinations we call on the parties to
cooperate urgently with the World Health
Organization to facilitate vaccine
rollouts and ensure the safety of
humanitarian
workers we call on Israel to allow
unfettered Aid access into Gaza and to
put in place
an effective Decon deconfliction
mechanism to ensure Aid can be delivered
safely finally president I reiterate the
UK's call for regional
deescalation as my prime minister made
clear in his call with Iranian president
pesan last
night thanks to the tireless efforts of
the US Qatar and Egypt there is a Ceasar
deal on the table for Gaza
my prime minister joined with his French
and German counterparts to urge the
parties to resume discussions on 15
August and get the deal
done we need an immediate ceasefire we
must get the hostages out get much more
Aid in and move quickly towards a
two-state solution with a safe and
secure Israel alongside a viable and
Sovereign Palestinian State I thank
you I thank the representative of United
Kingdom for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
China
president I thank Aleria for requesting
this
meeting thank you to car and director
mton for their
briefings Israel's air strike on the T
School in Gaza last week claimed around
100 innocent civilan lives China
strongly condemns this attack civilians
and civilian infrastructure must not be
the target of mil operations this is a
red line under the international
humanarian
law attacking in broad daylight a school
where a large number of siblings are
seeking
shelter again and again is a heinous
act
the month millions of people in Gaza and
have SE their home destroyed their loved
ones separated they been forced to move
from place to place in search of a
corner of Peace only to be M with
indiscriminate bombardment and death
that could Beall them at any moment as
we speak nowhere is safe in
Gaza in a place was declared a soall
safe Zone by Israel the people there
have been forced to flee
in the face of
newborn the desate people OFA want to
know where is the end of the war and
where is the Hope for
survival an immediate un ceasefire is
what the people of Gaza year for it is
also the overwhelming consensus of the
interal Community two months ago when
pushing for the security Council
resolution
2735 the US claimed that Israel had
accepted a ceasefire agreement but the
reality is quite the opposite instead of
credible signs of Israel's commitment to
a ceasefire what we see is ever
expending military operations and
adverising civilian casualties the us as
the largest supplier of weapons has
enough influence over Israel we hope
that the US will take a sincere and
responsible
actions to push Israel to stop its
military operations in Gaza as soon as
possible and to stop slaughtering
civilians
president the humanitarian disaster in
aaza has continued to worsen hunger and
disease are spreading recently a high
ranking is politician described it as
just unmoral to Star 2 million people in
Gaza suching remarks are totally
unacceptable
hunger must not be weaponized
humanitarian issues must not be
politicized civilian lives must not be
trivialized as sparking chips China
urges Israel to fulfill its I
obligations by opening all border
crossings and guaranteeing rapid and
safe access for humanitarian supplies at
the World Health Organization is
conducting a polio vaccination program
for children
in
Gaza which is crucial to stemming the
thread of infectious diseases and
protecting Children's Health Israel is
obliged to protect the safety and
freedom of movement of the medical
workers
involved the increased volatility of the
situation in West Bank is
worrisome we are greatly concerned about
the incidence of sexual AB by Israeli
soldiers against paltin DET needs we
call for investigations and
accountability China urges Israel to
immediately seize all settlement
activities effectively curb the
intensifying settler violence and stop
eroding the basis of the two-state
solution we reiterate that the two-state
solution is the only viable way to
resolve the palestin Israel issue China
supports the establishment of
independent state and other case of a
larger more authoritative and more
effective International Peace
conference president they Fallout of the
Gaza conflict is spreading ever faster
the situation in the Middle East is Hing
in the balance
nevertheless irresponsible provocation
and adventurism continue
unabated we are deeply worried about
this China reiterates that it ke to
avoiding the deration and escalation of
the situ
lies in achieving a comprehensive and
durable SE in Gaza without delay China
ready to work tly with International
Community to end the fighting in Gaza
Elevate the humanitarian catastrophe
Implement two State solution achieving
long-term peace and stability and
Security in the Middle East thank you
president I thank the representative of
China for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of United
States thank you Mr President
thank you also under Secretary General
Dar Carlo and director Dalton for your
very sobering briefing we continue to
support the United Nations vital albe it
difficult to implement humanitarian
efforts in
Gaza the United States is deeply
concerned about reports of Civilian
casualties following the August 10th
strike by the IDF on the compound in
Gaza that included a school and a mosque
Sheltering desperate displaced people
including women and children we have
raised our concerns with Israel and
while they indicated they were targeting
senior senior officials from Hamas and
Palestinian Jihad they have an
obligation to do everything possible
under International humanitarian law to
protect civilians we mourn every
civilian lost in this horrific incident
and in this conflict
but this much we do know and must be
acknowledged Hamas continues to gather
and continues to operate out of schools
with no regard for the well-being of
civilians Israel has a right to pursue
Hamas Israel has a right to respond to
threats but how it does that matters
we've said repeatedly and consistently
that Israel must must take measures to
minimize civilian
harm colleagues I cannot stress enough
President Biden's view that it is time
to bring immediate relief to the
long-suffering people in Gaza and the
long-suffering hostages and their
families the best way to do that is a
ceasefire in Gaza with a hostage deal
the United States alongside Qatar and
Egypt has worked tirelessly for months
to forge the framework agreement on the
table with only the details of
implementations to be concluded a
framework based on the principles
endorsed by this Council in resolution
2735 simply put the deal needs to get
done now now as President Biden
emphasized in a statement last week with
leaders of Qatar in Egypt and I quote
there there is no further time to waste
nor excuses from any party for further
delay it is time to release the hostages
begin the ceasefire and implement this
agreement unquote we've called on both
sides to resume urgent discussion on
Thursday August 15th in Doha or Cairo to
close all remaining gaps and commence
implementation of the deal without
further delay as mediators we are
prepared to present a final bridging
proposal one that resolves the remaining
implementation issues in a manner that
meets the expectations of all parties we
welcome the statements of support for
this effort such as the one issued by
Algeria over the weekend and we call on
every member of this Council to speak
with one voice to press samas to
participate in the discussions on August
15th and for both sides to agree to
implement the deal on the table without
further conditions or
delays a durable ceasefire could
accelerate efforts to restore basic
services including electricity and water
and sanitation bringing much needed
relief to Palestinian civilians many of
whom have been displaced multiple times
it could enable an urgently needed
vaccination campaign to stop the spread
of polio and it would facilitate the
release of all hostages held by Hamas
including eight Americans and citizens
from many other countries we also have
been clear that a ceasefire and Gaza
could help enable diplomatic efforts to
restore calm along the blue line and
reduce Regional tensions indeed from the
start of this conflict between Hamas and
Israel the United States has worked to
avoid a situation in which the fighting
in Gaza spirals into a broader regional
conflict four months ago exactly on
April 13th the United States worked
closely with Israel and our partners in
the region to repel Iran's unprecedented
attack on Israel and Stave off a broader
conflict now we once again in a moment
of heightened threat consequently the
United States has taken needed
precautionary steps including moving an
aircraft carrier group and additional
air assets to the region so that should
the situation arise again we are
prepared to defend Israel and US
military personnel in the region against
any threats but let me be clear our
deployment of additional military assets
are not a prediction of what is to come
a broader regional conflict is not
inevitable the United States overall
goal remains to turn the temperature
down in the region deter and defend
against any future attacks and avoid
regional conflict that starts with
finalizing a deal for an immediate
ceasefire with hostage release in Gaza
we need to get this over the finish line
again we urge every member of this
Council to say clearly and unequivocally
that it is time to finalize and
implement this agreement thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
United States for their statement I give
the floor to the representative of
Japan thank you Mr President I also
thank USG diaro and director Doon for
their
briefings the number of Civilian
casualities and the degree of suffering
we have seen in Gaza for more than 300
days of conflict are unbearable and
distressing today this urgent meeting is
convened following yet another grave
incident Japan expresses its deep
concern over the loss of many civilian
lives and injuries caused by the Israeli
air strikes on Al tabin school last
Saturday it is appalling that numerous
Siberian casualities have occurred in
schools and
hospitals all parties must strictly
abide by relevant principles of
international law especially the
protection of
civilians we urge Israel to make every
effort to avoid civilian
harm Mr
President Gaza is truly in
agony nearly 1.9 million people are
forcibly displaced due to the repeated
evacuation order by Israel fleeing again
and again to places where life is very
tenable Japan is deeply worried about
the significant shortage of food
medicine Fuel and other basic
necessities in
Gaza we strongly condemn the deplorable
remark by an Israeli cabinet
minister starving more than 2 million
Palestinians in Gaza cannot be
justified the detection of polio and the
spread of such diseases is a man-made
problem stemming from the collapse of
the waste management system and is
another matter of serious
concern The raer Crossing must be
reopened and the safety of Aid workers
must be assured at all
times Israel must lift all imped MS to
humanitarian assistance not only to
provide the minimum of survival but also
to protect human
dignity Mr President the still unfolding
tragedy confirms that three things that
this Council called for in resolution
2735 must be achieved now without any
further delay namely an immediate
ceasefire the release of all remaining
host hostages and the expansion of Aid
delivery across Gaza at scale in this
vein Japan appreciates the vigorous
diplomatic Push by the United States
Egypt and Qatar to close all remaining
gaps to finalize the deal on the
ceasefire and hostage
release we strongly support the recent
joint leader statement and the effort
made by the three countries and we urge
all parties is concerned especially
Hamas to constructively engage at the
proposed meetings later this week and
immediately work towards concluding the
deal this Council and the entire
International Community must remain
United to end this crisis
immediately Japan will play and Japan
will play its part in close cooperation
with relevant stakeholders I thank you
Mr
President I thank the representative of
Japan for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of
Guana Mr President thank you for
convening this meeting in response to
the timely request made by the
delegation of Algeria I also thank under
Secretary General De Carlo and Miss
Dalton of Ocha for the information
provided Mr President the attacks on the
alaban school are part of an ongoing
pattern employed by the Israeli Defense
Force since the beginning of the war in
Gaza it is a pattern characterized by a
complete disregard for the humanitarian
principle of
proportionality and it results over and
over again in the killing of a high
number of civilians on the pretext of
eliminating one or more military targets
the alaban incident joins a growing list
of similar incidents and one can expect
this pattern to continue unless there
are meaningful measures to stop the
Israelis from continuing the senseless
Massacre of the Palestinian people
Guyana condemns in the strongest terms
the ongoing violations of international
law including International humanitarian
law that manifests in the targeting of
civilians and civilian INF
infrastructure we call on Israel and all
parties to the conflict to abide by
their obligations on the international
law and to end the hostilities against
the people of
Palestine Mr President 10 months of
Israel's unrelenting and unprecedented
assault against the Palestinian people
in Gaza have created a tragedy of such
cruel proportions that it is difficult
to find anything comparable in mod
history the death toll is approaching
40,000 with women and children over
represented in this number people are
starving and living in the most inhumane
conditions imaginable with virtually no
access to medicine and Health Care polio
has now been detected in waste water in
Gaza placing unvaccinated Children at
Risk again it is the children of Gaza
that will suffer the most if an outbreak
is not prevented what else can we expect
though when there is one toilet for 600
people living in shelters council
members are all aware that the World
Health Organization is ready to send
more than 1 million polio vaccines to
Gaza targeting 600,000 children in the
words of the director General and I
quote the who needs absolute freedom of
movement for health workers and medical
equipment to carry out these complex Le
Lex operations safely and effectively a
ceasefire or at least days of
Tranquility during preparation and
delivery of the vaccination campaigns
are required to protect children in Gaza
from polio end of quote Guyana supports
the who's plans to tackle this problem
and appeals to the Israeli government to
provide the relevant authorizations and
to ensure the conditions to vaccinate to
facilitate the vaccination
campaign this is a humanitarian
imperative and a legal and moral
obligation Mr President Guyana has
watched with Keen horror the Israeli
strategy of making Gaza a thorough fear
of Destruction the images coming out of
Gaza shows a
moonscape yet what those images do not
show is the problem of unexploded
ordinances which according to one
commentator makes Gaza a literal ticking
Time Bomb even after the hostilities end
these will present a real danger that
could possibly take years to address Mr
President shall we speak also of the
severe psychological trauma that this
war has brought on and which Miss dton
referred to the constant bombings
multiple displacements sight and smell
of death dismemberment harassment and
other indignities can only be expected
to have a heavy mental toll on civilians
shall we also speak of the harrowing
accounts of Palestinian civilians
detained in Israel the torture including
sexual violence to which they are
subject is illustr illustrative of a
level of depravity and debauchery that
should never find expression among the
Agents of a Civilized Nation more so a
United Nations member
state but all of this represents the OCC
occupying power executing its
colonialist aspirations fueled by a
racist and religious ideology of
superiority that allows it to treat
Palestinians as inferior it is an
ideology that promotes the subjugation
of the Palestinian people this is the
reason that Israel's response to 7th of
October has been so over the top it is
to Pummel the Palestinians into
relinquishing any aspiration to freedom
and self-determination Nation it is part
of the wider strategy that we are also
witnessing in the occupied West Bank
characterized by the ongoing illegal
settlement activity and the accompanying
violence under the watchful and
encouraging eyes of the Israeli Security
Forces this Council has a responsibility
to end the impunity with which Israel
has been carrying out its atrocities
against the Palestinian people it flies
in the face of everything that the
United Nations is built on peace and
security human rights and sustainable
development we cannot allow this to
continue Mr President it has been more
than two months since this Council
passed resolution
2735 endorsing the efforts of the United
States Qatar and Egypt for which we
thank them since then
2,600 more Palestinians in Gaza have
been killed and over 7,000 more
injured Miss Dalton asked how long we
ask how many more we stress again the
obligation of the parties to implement
the provisions of resolution
2735 to reach a deal for a ceasefire the
release of hostages and for adequate
humanitarian assistance to reach the
people of Gaza we also underline the
obligation of Israel to abide by the icj
orders mandating that Israel takes a
necessary steps to protect Palestinian
lives and well-being and prevent
genocide in closing Mr President
implementation of the two-state
solution is way overdue and is the only
viable path to peace it is an injustice
to the Palestinian people and to the
people of the Middle East generally that
peace appears to be a chimera owing to
Israel's dogged agenda to deny
Palestinians their right to live in
Freedom and dignity in their own State
Guyana urges the council to act to end
this Injustice Guyana is prepared to do
its part I thank
you I thank the representative of Guyana
for their
statement I give the floor to the
representative of Republic of
Korea thank you Mr President I thank USG
Carlo and director dton of o for their
detailed briefing on the current
situation in Gaza the entire Globe is
anxiously watching the precarious
situation in the Middle
East a series of destabilizing incidents
have continued all across the region
including along the Blue Line Teran in
Tel Aviv in Beirut and in the Red
Sea as repeatedly stressed in this
chamber the Republic of Korea reiterate
its urgent calls for maximum restraint
by all parties in the region we strongly
oppose any action that may trigger
another cycle of violence and counter
violence as this would only further
endanger the lives of innocent civilians
throughout the
region we are appalled and Gravely
disturbed by the repeated attacks
against civilian infrastructure
including schools hospitals and shelters
in Gaza and especially by the August
10th strike on a mosque inside the Aline
school where around 100 people were
reportedly killed this was Israel's
eighth bombing of a school Sheltering
civilians so far in August
alone we are all aware that civilian
infrastructure should not be targeted
this is all the more so when those
schools are being used as shelters for
desperate civilians who have been
displaced multiple times amid ongoing
hunger insecurity and
disease Israel argues that these attacks
on alabin school were carried out using
precise Munitions to eliminate Hamas and
Palestinian Islamic Jihad members
embedded in the
compound but regardless of this argument
a fact is a fact yet another school
where hundreds of civilians were
Sheltering was intentionally
targeted Israel claims that 31
terrorists were eliminated but in this
indiscriminate air strike no distinction
no distinction was made between
militants and civilians including women
and children we understand Israel has
numerous nous challenges in fighting
against Hamas but it is our be our
belief that once again a school filled
with displaced civilians was bombed by
an advanced country like
Israel International humanitarian law
must be observed at all
times as the office of the High
Commissioner for human rights clearly
pointed out the potential collocation of
Hamas with civilian
as well as non-compliance with
international law by Hamas which we
strongly condemn does not negate
Israel's obligations under international
law killing militants cannot justify
killing civilians including children
this is the unambiguous conclusion of
international humanitarian law as such
Hamas must not endanger civilians by
using them as human shares yet at the
same same time we urge Israel to take
every possible measure to protect
innocent Palestinian
civilians we are also disturbed by last
month's ohchr report as well as media
reporting detailing that the rights of
Palestinian detainees have been violated
through arbitrary detentions and ill
treatment Mr President we are seriously
alarmed by the exacerbating humanitarian
situation in Gaza spreading famine has
been compounded by the total Destruction
of Law and Order and repeated evacuation
orders by the
IDF we urge Israel to implement all
possible measures to enhance the Swift
and safe delivery of humanitarian Aid
throughout Gaza at
scale humanitarian workers notably on
Rise must be protected Ed and their
activities should be ured we are however
opposed by the announcement last week
that the UN office of internal oversight
Services found at least nine honoral
staff members may have been involved in
the October 7th
attack onra should maintain its role as
a core pillar of humanitarian efforts in
Gaza its credibility and neutrality must
be
ensured Mr president the situation in
the Middle East simply cannot continue
along this dangerous trajectory of
escalation the conflict in Gaza must end
immediately in this regard we welcome
The Joint statement by the United States
Egypt and katar calling for the
resumption of the negotiations on August
15th Hamas must take part in the to in
the talks Israel also should stick to
the conditions elaborated in Security
Council resolution
2735 urgent ceasefire should be followed
by humanitarian Aid distributed as scale
and reinvigorated efforts towards the
two-state solution we hope all leaders
in the region make the right de
escalatory decisions rejecting the
extremist voices bent on additional
Bloodshed I thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
Republic of Korea for statement I give
the floor to the representative of
Russian
Federation thank you
President we like to thank USG
on peace building Affairs Ros De Carlo
and also the director of financing and
Partnerships division for op Lisa for
their comprehensive briefings and their
assessments of the situation in the
occupied Palestinian
territories we grateful to the
delegation of Algeria for taking the
initiative to con in today's meeting
regarding recent events in
Gaza the last time that we discussed the
situation there was two weeks
ago it's clear that we need to be doing
this more
often because the notion that the
situation in G in the region as a whole
continues to drastically deteriorate has
unfortunately already become routine and
does not across the horrors and the
suffering civilians in guards that have
to face every day including elderly
people women and
children our West primarily American
colleagues In Cahoots with Israel to
express any passion to Palestinians
Point therefore it's important to
regularly bring the truth about what's
happening in Gaza to the security
Council platform and to International
Community extremely shaken by the
Israeli strike on the alaban school
in at the time more than 2,000 refugees
were Sheltering there more than 100
people died and tens were injured many
of the with women and
children we express our sincere
condolences to the families of those who
died and we wish a speedy recovery to
those who were
injured comp with the Norms of
international humanitarian La we call on
Western Jerusalem to refrain from any
attacks on civilian
objects there can be no justification
for this kind of
action what happened in alab can't be
seen as a oneoff or indeed some awful
criminal
misstep to in the last 10 days alone
centers in Gaza where idps were
Sheltering have been
bombed
to data the Fourth of July Israel cared
out 24 strikes on schools where
displaced people were as a result of at
least 274 people have
died a growing conclusion that what is
happening is not anything else than a
deliberate Choice by isra leadership
condemnation specific West and for
restraint will not work the problem runs
much
deeper that the Pand to Israel Wan
colleagues Council
still has unfortunately not been able to
take reaction to the escalation of the
crisis
mid reminds us more and more of passive
powerless
situation and ritually Express on this
their concern I say 14 M of the
secer by the US
who rewards an immediate
ceasefire June more than two months ago
counil adopted it most recent product on
American
spons members of the security Council to
give it the green light as soon as
possible CLA that it theal between and
Israel on a
ceasefire Russ abstained time because we
had the most serious doubts regarding
the feasibility of this resolution time
has shown all of these doubts have been
confirmed W
colleagues to about this resolution 2735
contain three phases with extremely
ambitious plans
for to start scale reconstruction of the
Gaza
Strip not a single one of these phases
has materialized now absolutely
surrealistic Security Council signed up
to this
security aat lineing the first operative
paragraph that Israel
agreed on many ining this that they
not of the Israel official shows that
isra in princip does not
intend what the position of the security
Council may
be isra minister
of the deal
capitulation and the ministry of
National
Security directly said that there will
not be an end to this
war
from colleagues their
ground to bring to agreement with the
security Council should not interfere
with expression the mountain has given
birth to a mouse been understatement we
have
not more adoption of resolution
275 the only anti- result is a BL
provocative murder of the main
negotiator h
Minister during his visit to
Tran now the whole world is sitting
anxiously fearing a new escalation in
the
region United States of
America Hamas should participate in uh
negotiations on August 15th as if
everything only depended on Hamas
president
solution to
the sponsorship of the USA is not only
unsuccessful but counterproductive in
time region it's a blaze it's on the
brink of falling
into
priority stop to the
ceas very beginning
of to an immediate and unconditional
ceas weos the first resolution with this
demand back on the 16th of October last
year how many lives have been saved C
then had risen to the not question there
was a specific figure 40,000 people died
more
200 more than 90,000 have been
injured already said
today
di resolution 735 was adopted this is
the price thetion of multilateral
diplomacy and shorted interest of some
members of the
council who with their veto of D six
months have not even allowed for mention
Security Council documents of a
ceasefire not be possible suffing of
innocent also H will be released and
detain will be released and also full
and uned
prot interest of
Israel once again again we should think
together about what measures can be
taken to deescalate in Gaza and the
region as a
whole we need visit to the field then
that's what should
happen
other department of the secretar in the
zone of the conflict to fulfill their
mandate often risking their lives and we
here in New York with information from
their reports and from open
sources invitations to visit Geneva
rather to those regions where we are
really
needed pror Cil visit not politic
tourism to comfortable
locations also to have a second at the
question
on the ground specialized misss could be
reformatted
primarily streng
mandate without tying cons of both
parties
if will never be
received tce
alreadying
specific to be
resolved to bre new life into his which
is very needed in the circumstances of
the current escalation call on colleages
on the council to not sit idly by but
actively involve themselves in these
discussions the counil cannot not should
close eyes what is happening in the
Middle
East for the benefit of one delegation
neglect direct mandate to maintain
International Peace and
security and should it forget about its
own decision the need to create
independent Sovereign Palestinian state
within 1967 borders with East Jerusalem
as its capital living side by side in
peace and security with
Israel sches and
concept Foundation of Peace in the
Middle East we are ready to cooperate
with all of those who share this
approach thank you for your
attention I thank the representative of
Russia Federation for their statement I
give the floor to the representative of
Malta thank you president I also thank
under secretary Rosemary the Caro and
director Lisa dorton for the hering
briefings
today MTA condemns the horrific strike
on the alabin school in Gaza last
weekend which reportedly killed dozens
of civilians including children this is
a continuation of the deeply concerning
pattern of strikes on Palestinian
education
facilities alaban school was a refuge
for hundreds of displaced Palestinians
who urge Israel to seize attacks on
civilians and civilian objects and to
take immediate decisive action to adhere
to international human rights and
humanitarian law
it is unacceptable that the civilian
casualties of this war have reached
40,000 and by some estimates may have
may be as high as
180,000 and that several hostages
including children remain captive in
Gaza for 312
days innocent lives on both sides should
be safeguarded at all costs the state of
s reflects an apparent complete
disregard for international law as the
modus operandi of the conflict parties
hamas's use of the civilian
infrastructure for military for militant
purposes including through the firing of
rockets into Israel directly jeopardizes
civilians which we wholly condemn and as
we have consistently condemned the
terror attacks including those of 7th
October nonetheless strict compliance
with international law including
International humanitarian law remains a
Paramount obligation of the conflict
parties including
Israel the principles of Distinction
proportionality and precaution are not
voluntary the lives of civilians women
and children cannot be
disregarded Malta condemns the loss of
all innocent civilian life including the
recent killing of Drew's children in
majal Shams and we stressed the conflict
party's obligation to prioritize
protection of civilians and civilian
infrastructure president the broad and
systematic risks faced by gaza's
population remain
humanitarian Aid continues to be blocked
without any legitimate administrative or
Bure bureaucratic reason hunger the
growing threat of diseases such as polio
exacerbated by little to no access to
Medical Aid persistent displacement and
lawlessness have deepened insecurity
rendering the security the situation
untenable humanitarian actors continue
to inform us that what is being done to
address these horrific conditions is
nowhere CL close to enough a paradigm
shift is necessary border crossings must
be reopened and effective measures need
to be taken to ensure that Aid is
delivered into and across
Gaza president the Carnage must stop
hostages must be released they must be
they must be reunited with their
families and the humanarian crisis must
be adequately addressed the full
immediate and effective implementation
of of relevant Council resolutions and
the orders of the icj is
essential mot affirms its categorical
call for an immediate and permanent
cease fire we fully support and commend
efforts by the US Egypt and Qatar who
continue work towards bridging gaps to
implement the framework agreement which
is in line with counc resolution
2735 we call on the conflict parties to
constructively approach negotiations and
urgently implement the ceasefire deal
as Regional escalations continue we
underline that concluding this deal is
critical this will directly con
contribute to avoiding a broader
conflict in the Middle East we call on
all regional parties to commit to
diplomacy deescalate and refrain from
any attacks which would inflame Regional
tensions and undermine chances for a
ceasefire deal for Israelis and
Palestinians to know security and peace
a return to restorative dialogue towards
a itical Horizon must become the core
objective mola stresses that this must
align with a comprehensive peace plan
which paves the way towards a credible
and irreversible realization of the
two-state solution I thank
you I thank the representative of Malta
for their statement I give the floor to
the representative of Switzerland mer
thank you
president the convening of this urgent
meeting
in
Gaza for their
statements
president condemns the violations of
international humanarian law committed
by all
parties also condemns the fact that
hosties Contin to claim many civilian
victims as was reported last Saturday in
Gaza a school is a place of learning a
school must enable children to learn to
develop build future and th contribute
to a peaceful and prosperous Society in
Gaza today schools are often The Last
Resort for finding something to eat some
water or shelter even these
schools which have
become shelters
no ref according to the office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for
human rights the Israeli attack on the
alter School killed at least 93 people
and was the 21st attack in a single
month on a school users of Refuge
according to the same Source attacks on
schools universities teachers and
students are on the
increased we heard at the same time more
than half a million children have not
been to school since the 7th of
October International humanitarian law
prohibits including armed groups such as
H using civilians to protect a military
objective from
Attack even when this rule is violated
this is in this in no way suspends
Israel's obligation to comply strictly
with International humanitarian law in
the conduct of
hostilities this includes the principles
of Distinction precaution and
proportionality is occupying power is
obliged to provide the population with
basic humanitarian needs including safe
shelter president 75 years ago yesterday
the Geneva conventions came into being
by adting these conventions member
states committed themselves to
preserving Humanity even in times of War
these commitments must be implemented as
a matter matter of urgency by all
parties to the conflict and that is not
the case today
part must respect international law and
help to alleviate the suffering of
civilians humanarian situation in Gaza
remains unbearable in addition to the
risk of dying as a result of the
fighting there is multiple displacements
L of shelter disease and famine the
Resurgence of polio shows the scale of
the
disaster polio is incurable PR is the
only solution
the vaccination campaign by the United
Partners must be made possible without
delay to avoid another perfectly
avoidable
disaster continues to take
holds at the use of starvation as a
method of warfare against the civilian
population is prohibited and constitutes
a war crime under the Rome
stat the immediate
Saed delivery of humanitarian Aid to all
civilians in need throughout the
must finally be
guaranteed the recent remarks by the
Israeli Finance Minister are
unaccept we expect the Israeli
government to respect obligations under
International humanitarian La
president swiland demands the full
implementation of the resolutions of
this Council in particular resolutions
26 272 2720 2728 and
2735 as well as provisional measures of
international court of
justice the war and suffering in Gaza
must end and all hostages must be REM
released immediately
unconditionally calls on all to engage
in good faith in ceasefire TS under the
ages of the United States Qatar and
Egypt ceas fire in Gaza is also cral to
Regional
deescalation the solution of democ stat
is and palestin of which Gaza is
integral part living side by side in
peace within secure and recognized
borders remains essential for peace the
only conceivable political Horizon for
guaranteeing the security and dignity of
the people in the
region so schools become what they
should become once again what they
should be a place of learning and hope
for a future of Peace thank you very
much I thank the representative of
Switzerland for their statement
I give the floor to the representative
of
France Carlo and for their
briefings Gaza as expressed on a number
of occasions the president of the
Republic u m the war must come to an end
for the people of Gaza for the hostages
for the region stability which is still
in play in this context France most
firmly condemn
the Israeli strikes on 98 AUST which
targeted the school in the town of Gaza
and addresses
condolences close victims and stands in
solidary
thought for some weeks schools have been
bombed where hundreds of people were
displaced and seeking Refuge an
unacceptable number of these attacks
against the civilian infastructure must
stop and France recalls the urgency of
respecting humanitarian law in this
regard and France would also underscore
the urgency of a ceasefire immediately
and permanently in Gaz in order to put
an end to the suffering of the civilian
population and to bring about massive
and unated delivery of humanitarian
systems which is absolutely necessary
for the immense needs of the people of
Gaza and reiterates it call for an
immediate release when without
conditions of all hostages as well as
its condemnations in the strongest terms
of all terrorist attacks committed by
Hamas
and as recall along the sides of of the
United Kingdom and Germany France
supports mediation efforts of the United
States Egypt and calls for immediate
resumption of negotiations which must be
successful without any delays in France
reaffirms the urgency of implementing a
two-state solution the only way to
guarantee stability and Security in the
region given the urgency of a two-state
solution that is the only way to bring
about security and stab the reg given
the increase of tensions in the Middle
East this Council must do everything in
its power in order to prevent further
Regional unrest France is attached to
Regional stability and security of its
Partners in the region and we have
mobilized in favor of a rapid
deescalation working with their
International Partners France expresses
its deep seated concern with regard to
ongoing clashes along the blue line
between Israel and Lebanon and
reiterates its full support to unil
whose action is key and th reaffirms his
attachment to the security and
proposes intends to propose to this
Council a Dr resolution to renew unfill
mandate for another 12 months we call
upon all parties to shoulder the
greatest responsibility and exercise the
greatest
restraint for the region as a whole to
prevent any further
flareups Israel should refrain from any
attack that might further exate Regional
tensions and which would make it more
difficult to bring about a ceasefire and
the release of hostages thank you I
thank the representative of France for
their statement I give the floor to the
representative of
Ecuador Mr
President and direct for their briefings
to the council my country reiterates
support for the courageous and
sacrificing efforts of the United
Nations and agencies in
now now more than 10 months haveed since
the beginning of this more than 10
months of
violence and
desolation more than 10
months and deadly news and this weekend
was no exception the bombing of a school
in Gaza has once again
led many of whom were displaced several
times
SE in vain security and protection
theous numers of deaths and civilian
wounded created by this world make it
difficult to disagree with those who
have said the Palestinian people is
grappling with colletive punishment as
stated by the
secretary various world leaders
more than
110 hostages continue to be under the of
H and more than 300 days since they have
been in captivity with the which started
with the unjustifiable attacks terrorist
attacks of 7 October these attacks we
should recall were the immediate cause
of the current violence and we can't but
condemn as my country does once again on
this every day that passes it's the
civilians who bear the brunt of the
weight of this conflict in the midst of
horror displ and unending suffering as
indicated correctly by the special
coordinator to every day that passes
also the increasing possibility of a
Reginal conflict that would lead to
death more suffering for the civilian
populations paradoxically just yesterday
we commemorated 75 years of the Geneva
Convention
agement def urgent to have an agreement
in place that will make it possible to
stop this War release the hostages
aliviate the terrible human humanitarian
situation in Gaza and leave those who
would wish further violence without a
pretex president on the 8th of August
the leaders of Qatar Egypt and the
United States ised a join
communicate whereby they called on the
parties to resume the dialogue this
Thursday 15th of August and finalize
without further delay an
agreement my country would like to thank
three mediating countries for their
leadership and their and urges the
parties to accept this call and take
this
opportunity demonstrate political will
and good faith this is the only way to
finally the negotiations of an agreement
and begin its implementation without
further delay as requested by this
Council in resolution
2735 in the
mean all of the regional actors
that must exercise a maximum of
restraint and avoid any action or
measure that might impact negotiations
it is time already to truly make a ctive
effort for peace it is time for concrete
action and attitudes that will lead to a
change in the cruel current reality it
is time for agreements and
restraint I conclude this statement Mr
President with the hope the next time
the council addresses this issue the
hostilities will have stopped and it
will be possible to make progress
towards a peaceful negotiated definitive
and fair solution for the parties with
the existence of two states Palestine
and Israel on the Bas of the 1967
borders and the relevant resolutions
this is the only way to put a definitive
end to this conflict thank you very
much I thank the representative of
Equador for their
statement I shall now make a statement
in my capacity as the representative of
seron
I thank USG Miss osar de Caro and
director Lisa dtin for their important
briefings and call to
action particularly in the statement of
director Lisa dtin to leave no stone
ont I welcome the participation of the
representatives the state of Palestine
Israel and South Africa in this meeting
after weeks of sustained escalation
amidst continued violence in the Gaza
strep and the Wilder region it is tragic
to hear another report of a direct
attack on the alabin school located in
central Gaza a place where hundreds of
displaced Palestinian civilians found
shelter we know that in the press
release the Israeli Defense Forces
stated at following intelligence the
Israeli Air Force precisely struck a
Hamas command and control center
embedded in the alteran school located
adjacent to a mosque which serves as a
shelter for the resident in Gaza
City Sal deeply regrets that over 80
civilians were killed including a family
of 10 persons and that many more were
injured we deplo this tragic and
unacceptable loss of Civilian lives and
the actions that led to such devastating
consequences we iterate our condemnation
of attacks on honorous schools civilian
objects including residential areas
providing shelter to innocent civilians
in particular women and
children we call for an immediate end to
indiscriminate and disproportionate
attacks and violations of international
law colleagues as reported by the UN
Human Rights office in the occupied
Palestinian territory the unfolding
pattern in the recent weeks of direct
strikes on schools and in the Gaza strep
is
unacceptable and cannot be justified
under any
circumstances the UN Human Rights office
has also reported that over the past
months 17 schools have been struck
killing at least 163 Palestinians
including women and
children in the span of 10 months each
day has brought new challenges struggles
and hardship for the affected civilians
who have witnessed and endure prolonged
suffering
the humanitarian situation remains a
crisis of EP a crisis of Epic
Proportions as the supply of
humanitarian Aid into the Gaza strep
remains challenging due to access
constraints and the high level of
insecurity civilians are not only
struggling to access basic amenities
such as food water and
medication but are also at risk of a
surge in communicable diseases due to
overcrowding and poor living
conditions recently the World Health
Organization has confirmed the high risk
of polio virus spreading within Gaza
Strip due to the unsanitary condition in
the confined
space as stated by a wh expert an
outbreak of polio virus in the Gaza
Street May spel over internationally at
a very high
point we therefore call for the safe
facilitation of unobstructed access
into and within Gaza through all cing
points for all vaccinations Associated
equipment including cold chain storage
and specialist
staff the well-being and health of
children require far greater inputs than
just vaccinations and we reiterate our
call for unimpeded Access for all
humanitarian
activities it is at rending at this
stage to recount the series of threats
and devastations civilian face in the
Gaza
Street while people still struggle to
have an average proportion of a square
meal per day and access to basic
healthare there are also warnings of
potential flooding ahead of the winter
season humanitarian experts in the field
have highlighted that the repeated
evacuation orders by Israel since the
start of the conflict has been carried
out in a manner that fails to prioritize
the safety
and well-being of civilians as they fail
to meet the international humanitarian
law
criteria
colleagues on the Wilder region the
situation remained
fragile as hostilities continue across
the Blue Line in Lebanon the Hues
continue their Marian attacks in the Red
Sea and a potential attack on Israel
territory as a possible retaliation from
Iran cannot be
discounted the West Bank is no exception
as there is an increase in attacks and
civilian
casualities with the war in wider Middle
East Regional context I would like to
conclude with the following
observations firstly the cumulative tool
of the conflict makes it even more
essential at this stage to find a
peaceful
resolution this can be achieved with an
immediate ceasefire release of hostages
followed by parties to the conflict that
is Israel and Hamas complying with the
provisional measures ordered by the
international court of justice in South
Africa versus Israel case and Security
Council resolutions
2712 2720
2728 and
secondly in adhering to the principles
of international law including
International humanitarian law and
international human rights law civilian
object including schools cannot be
legitimate military Target as well as
cannot be used for any military
purpose thirdly and despite the stelmet
S remains supportive of ongoing
diplomatic engagement which in our
considered view is one of the effective
tools to resolving this
conflict we once again call on the
mediators ker Egypt and United States to
Foster an environment of constructive
dialogue to rebuild Trust TR and
confidence since SC 2735 was adopted
over 2,33 civilians have been
killed this can cannot continue as we
know that the deaths have added to the
287 a workers killed in Gaza Strip since
7th October
2023 including 205 honoral staff and at
least
39,6 199 Palestinian kill and over
91,92
injured in this regard and in closing we
call on all sides to take steps to
urgently finalize the deal being
brokered by Egypt Qatar and United
States in line with resolution
2735 the parties must demonstrate good
faith through sustained diplomatic
efforts and negotiations it is hoped
that the collective
conscience will rule over actions of the
parties and guide them towards doing
what is right and just as against what
they so desperately desire I thank
you I resume my functions as president
of the
council I give the floor to the
representative of the Observer state of
Palestine Mr President
As We Gather here for the 10th month in
a
row to advance a ceasefire to save human
lives Israel continues taking human
lives and every action possible to
spread a wild fire Wildfire across the
Middle
East as we sit here on the 75th
anniversary of the Geneva
conventions that where
birthed in the ruins of entire cities in
the mass and indiscriminate killing of
civilians in the death
Chambers in Hiroshima and nagazaki as a
pledge that the light will emerge out of
the darkest night and protect the
dignity and Humanity of all persons cot
in armed conflict
Israel is tearing the conventions apart
in Gaza along with every rule Humanity
has ever
elaborated as we meet here in New
York there are Israeli government and
military
officials pundits and analysts
explaining seriously that they are
entitled to carry out indiscriminate and
disproportionate attacks
against the Palestinian civilian
population to wage war against
civilians they explain that starvation
is a legitimate weapon of War they
justify gang gra and torture against
defenseless
prisoners as a required
deterrent and this is not a theoretical
exercise this is what Israel is imposing
against millions of Palestinians no man
woman or child
spared you demand Israel to stop killing
civilians as a security Council but it
Target them in their shelters and
Tents you demand Israel to allow food
and Medicine in but it ensures that
famine and diseases spread
you demand Israel to treat Palestinian
prisoners
humanely but it tortures them and allows
the isra jailers to rape and abuse their
Palestinian
hostages you call on it to stop its
settlements but it rapidly accelerates
its colonization of Palestinian land you
urge Israel to uphold the historic
status quo at the holy sites but its
ministers and settlers desecrate the AL
harar each time more openly and
provocatively so let me State the
obvious Israel does not care about your
condemnations let me repeat Israel does
not care about your
condemnations it dismisses your
resolutions it does not even live listen
to your debates that representative will
be playing with his iPhone while you are
talking as
countries as a security Council you had
a responsibility to act months ago to
stop this
impunity as the genocide continues you
have a responsibility to react to save
human lives and preserve the foundations
for peace and security for for all not
just for
some Israel is a rogue
state with a rotten government due to
the
unbridled impunity it has enjoyed so
far I have no doubt that the tides will
turn and we will not be deterred in
making sure no one can act as if
Palestinians lives are worthless
but Palestinians in Gaza cannot
wait for the tide to
turn their Agony must stop now must stop
right
now they wonder if you see
them do you ever think what if you were
born in
Gaza what if the prisoner raped was your
son
what if the children starving to death
were your
own what if that woman killed was your
daughter or your
wife what if the
disease was riddling the body of your
mother your
grandmother what if that family that was
blown into
pieces or burn to death was
yours killed in Cold Blood after running
in desperation and hunger for months to
survive just consider for one moment the
sheer Agony and despair that our people
have suffered all these long months of
deprivation and Devastation lashed upon
them while the world watched and left
them to suffer starve and die
Mr
President while we acknowledge and
welcome the international consensus that
has long called for an immediate
ceasefire clearly Israel has rained a
veto right over that
Prospect this must be brought to an end
Israel cannot continue to defy the world
and every rule of
humankind it is not a
coincidence every time the world pushes
for a
ceasefire Israel responds with a
massacre like the one in the
school it sends a message each more
gruesome than the one
before that it will not
stop but there is no right to commit
jono
obviously no
right and we warn all
those contributing directly or
indirectly to the emergence of such a
right there is nothing that can justify
Israeli actions
nothing and don't anyone dare say this
is about the
hostages it's not about the hostages
it became apparent long ago that this
Israeli government could care less about
them the hostages know it their families
know
it you know it in the security
Council Israel is killing them
abandoning them playing with their
lives Netanyahu has other
priorities self-serving ones
maniacal
ones he's a
maniac something terrible is happening
in
Israel something that has made
justifying genocide famine and gang rape
mainstream
ideology something horrific horrific is
happening the memory of the Holocaust
instead of serving as an unbreachable
barrier against the commission of
atrocities has been instrument in
instrumentalized to justify their
commission how's this how is this
possible 10 months later with the whole
world opposed to
it because that opposition has yet to
lead to Serious consequences for
Israel this is a hard fact you have to
face it
there are no consequences they're not
going to stop they're not going to
listen to
you to those who continue to AR
Israel to those who still have the
audacity to call in Israel quote unquote
to
investigate its own crimes as if the
actions of its soldiers do not reflect
the actual policies of its military and
political leaders
to those who dare to try and deter
International
courts from ensuring accountability
instead of deterring the perpetrators of
atrocities wake
up wake
up how long do you have to remain in
denial wake
up stop finding excuses
stop imagining that you can reason with
the Israeli government so it stops
killing civilians by the
thousands imposing famine torturing
prisoners colonizing and annexing our
land all while you appeal to them call
on them demand them to
stop you have to tell them to stop and
you you have the tools to make them stop
as a security Council and as nations in
your National
capacity you have to
decide what do you stand for and what do
you stand
against this is not a time for
justifications and
equivocations this is a time for clarity
and
resolve this is time to shore up
principles and
morality do not abandon your
duties do not abandon your duties as a
security Council you have the tools to
make what you decide a reality and no
one should be above the
law if you choose to do
that if you have the political
will to Implement what you
decide Mr
President when will the Israeli
government be held accountable for its
actions
when when will the war criminals be
sanctioned and as my brother from
Algeria it is time to
sanction we reject a position whereby
you would be against hostage taking
except when the hostages are
Palestinians and whereby you would
sanctions war criminals except when they
are
Israelis we cannot come back here over
and over again and pretend that everyone
does not all know that Israel will not
listen until it has no choice but to
listen you have to make them have no
choice but to listen to
you until there are consequences for its
crimes you cannot commit a crime and get
away with
it there has to be consequences for
those committing
crimes for those who want to defend the
for Geneva conventions and all the
conventions
elements when in artic one it says that
you have to
ensure in all times the compliance with
the
provisions of the conventions and you
see them getting away with murder and
you keep repeating the same thing when
are you going to enforce your decisions
and international law you need
to impose sanctions on those
criminals you do that that they will
stop continuing to commit these crimes
and atrocities and genocide against the
Palestinian people we reject a position
whereby you would be against hostage
taking as I said except when the
hostages are
Palestinians and whereby you would
sanctions war criminals except when they
are
Israelis we cannot come back here over
and over again and pretend that everyone
does not know that Israel will not
listen until it has no choice but to
listen until there are consequences for
its
crimes Palestinians are
exhausted surrounded by death and
endless
Horrors and they know your words are
so that they know that your words are no
match for the bombs and bullets taking
away their lives and
limbs but words are not all this counil
has wordss are not the only tool your
countries
have some have gone beyond
wordss they are too
rare this is a time to
act as a number of
you have stated
and you will be
judged not only for the eloquence of
your speeches but also and more
importantly for the courage of your
actions show some
courage show some
bravery take
actions stop the
criminals in getting away with
murder Mr President
we don't want Israel to torture our
prisoners a bit
less as some say that torture them a bit
less we want to see them
free we don't want Israel to make its
occupation a bit less
brutal we want to see it
end our people deserve
Freedom the international court of
justice has been unequivocal in its
determination that and I
quote the sustained abuse by Israel of
its positions as an occupying power
through
annexation and an assertion of permanent
control over the occupied Palestinian
territory and continued frustration of
the right of the Palestinian Ian people
to
self-determination violates fundamental
principles of international law and
renders Israelis presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory
unlawful their presence in the occupied
Palestinian territory is
unlawful therefore the court said it has
to end as quickly as
possible this illegal occupation and all
the illegal
inhumane racist and destructive policies
that flow from it must
end the Palestinian people will not
disappear and they will not
surrender they will not relinquish their
legitimate aspiration to live in Freedom
and dignity in their as ancestoral
land I urge the security Council to
act I urge you to
act and in the coming days we will go to
the general assembly to make
sure that it upholds its Charter
responsibilities to make sure that the
determinations of the highest court in
the world the
icj is translated into Political will
and
momentum into concrete actions to be
pursued by the UN and its member states
to end this illegal action as soon as
possible to Mo to
make protect civilians life to preserve
and pursue peace and
security dag Hammer shold once stated
and I
quote it has been said that the United
Nations wants not created in order to
bring us to
heaven but in order to save Us From Hell
end of
quotation history will remember that the
Palestinians were left to endure
hell
now the fire they have painfully
endured for almost a year is spreading
to devour everything around in our
region there is only one way to stop a
man-made fire
it is not enough to tend to the
flames you need to stop the
arsonist let me repeat what our people
in Gaza is saying and they have been
saying that and they cannot take it any
longer enough is enough you have to act
to put an end to this cruel criminality
and genocide against our people in
Palestine particularly in the Gaza Strip
will you do that all of
you you gave beautiful
statements you said you showed in
anonymity in
rejecting their criminal action but that
is good not
sufficient show the will and the resolve
to act on that basis with the tools that
you have with the Mandate given to you
by the chch
to come to the Palestinian people and
serve them Justice to stop the criminals
from
continuing in what they are
doing can we count on
you thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the Observer states of Palestine for
their
statement I now give the floor to the
representative of
Israel thank you uh Mr President Mr
President I'm sure many of you were not
aware or did not care to check but today
is tshav the saddest day on the Jewish
calendar our our ancient day of
mourning we are fasting today for the
many traged tragedies in Jewish history
that occurred on this day
including the destruction of our first
and second holy temples in
Jerusalem but let me be clear Jerusalem
will never fall
again Jerusalem United Jerusalem will
never fall again no matter how many
times our enemies attempt to destroy us
no matter how many times the UN Slanders
us and distorts
reality we will stay in our homeland and
we will
prevail Mr President council members in
the early hours of October
17th 17th
2023 reports flooded from Hamas Ministry
of Health of an Israeli air strike on
alah Hospital you probably remember it
remember that day these reports were
then quickly very quickly parroted by un
officials media outlets and several
governments not even 24 hours following
these baseless claims this Council
convened to discuss what was exposed to
be a terrorist propaganda
operation as you probably remember it
was a Palestinian Islamic Jihad rocket
which fell on the hospital par parking
lot not an Israeli
missile fast War forward 10 months and
nothing has changed in the early hours
of August 10th
2024 the Gaza Ministry of Health which
the AA representative referenced while
failing to mention it is in fact Hamas
has concocted a new blood liel once
again un officials and media Outlets
were quit to Echo this campaign of
Lies I simply cannot comprehend that the
United Nations security Council would
hold an emergency session based on
jihadist
propaganda once again the council Falls
for terrorist narratives amplifying them
and neglecting its obligations to the
truth some in this chamber distort
reality because of politically interest
and we all understand the political
interest so I will set the record
straight for all of you on Saturday
August on Saturday August 10th Israel
targeted not a school not a uh an
innocent school we targeted dangerous
terrorists operating in a Hamas command
and control Central Center within Elin
school as you usual Kamas cynically
abuses civilian facilities which should
be protected as their Terror
bases this strike eliminated at least at
least 31 Kamas and Palestinian Islamic
Jihad terrorists who carried out attacks
from inside this
compound these V terrorists included
platoon commanders mortar and rocket
operatives cell commanders and
intelligence
operatives we neutralized we neutralized
dozens of vicious terrorists who used
this school for their evil goals and
were in direct violation of
international law but do you hold Hamas
accountable for the losses no of course
not and of course he shouldn't speak for
Kamas because he doesn't represent them
how
convenient by the way the building
itself
is still intact which would be
physically impossible if Kamas claims
are to believed to be believed so I ask
you dear colleagues did you learn
nothing from hamas's lies about Al
hospital or from their lies about alifa
Hospital which they also used as their
headquarters and the lies about our
daring hostage rescue among many other
instances
in which other context would the
International Community rush rush to
propagate the lies of a terrorist
organization attempting to malign a
democratic State as we take every
possible measure every possible measure
to minimize collateral damage while
Hamas uses civilian as human Shields
deliberately putting them In Harm's
Way not only are Hamas lies
echoed here but you also ignore and
enable their outrageous violations of
international and humanitarian law
prohibited use of Civilian
infrastructure by Hamas terrorists are
numerous are
widespread everyone I'm telling you
everyone can see them everyone expects
the UN of
course yet the briefer today only touch
upon these violations rather than
investigating the twisted and immoral
strategies of Kamas terrorists but why
would we why would we be surprised if
the UN has no data of itself they have
to rely on baby killers and rapers to
supply them the data just 80 years ago
the Nazi minister of propaganda Joseph
gbls used the language of race science
as his weapon against the Jewish people
people poisoning the minds of the German
people Mr President Joseph gabel's
ilk the people who are ideologically his
descendants are alive and well sadly
only now it is Hamas using the language
of humanitarian and international law
and modern blood lials to vilify Israel
the council convened
today urgently to discuss hamas's false
claims shockingly it seems that you have
decided to dedicate your time to listen
to the terrorist lies while no real
concern has been shown when Israeli
children were murdered only recently by
kisala let me show you the
differences these and you have the names
and their positions these are the
terrorists eliminated in Gaza on
Saturday this is only part of them
because we as a reliable country we
check ourselves we don't rush to
conclusions but this is only part of the
terrorists who were eliminated on
Saturday terrorists exploiting alabin
school as a base for their murderous
objectives these are the people you call
an emergency session for
while
these are 11 of the 12 Israeli children
murdered by the
terrorist by the terrorist of
kisala these children were playing a
football
game in Maj Shams when kisala terrorists
rained down death upon their sweet
heads so while these terrorists used a
school
as their terabase these children will
never see their school again but for
them you couldn't find the time for an
urgent session they do not deserve an
urgent session huh my Algerian
colleague shame on you what a
disgrace so ask yourself why was the
murder of 12 Israeli children in majal
Shams insufficient cause for a meeting
but the elimination of Palestinian
terrorists operating out of a school is
sufficient but you know what the most
unbelievable thing is your inaction to
condemn and stop the biggest danger and
threat to the entire
region
Iran right now as we speak here now
millions of Israelis are preparing for a
direct Iranian Attack Just just as they
did in April Iran's aggression threatens
the entire region with war original
War yet you are here wasting time on
falsehood spread by the words of
terrorists this fact that we are holding
an emergency session because Hamas uses
civilian as human Shields rather than
discussing the real Global threat
perfectly represents
the distorted agenda within the UN a
significant Detachment between the un's
supposed agenda and the global
reality colleagues as this may be the
last time for me to address you as
Israel's
Ambassador though who knows perhaps
another session will be called because
of more terrorist
propaganda I would like to leave view
with
this I have been immensely immensely
proud to represent my country here the
most moral country in the world the most
moral country in the world you listen
Palestinian
representative in this warped
place I hope one day you will also see
the bias and perversion of morality here
and pray and I pray that you will see
the truth
the terrorist organization that this guy
represents here and tyrannical regimes
should be condemned not protected and
that Israel should be praised we are
today the Vanguard of civilization we
are the Vanguard of
civilization but until then I'm Israel
Kai thank you Mr
President I than the represent of Israel
for their
statement the representative of Algeria
has asked for the floor to make a
further statement I give them the
floor thank you president very
briefly I wanted to testify
here
16,000 children who have been
killed since the 7th of October
didn't kill
themselves I would like to testify
here there more than 10,000
women
massacred didn't Massacre themselves
thank you very
much I thank the representative of
Algeria for their further
statement I now give the floor to the
representative of South Africa
Mr President thank you for giving us the
opportunity to participate in this
urgent meeting which is most likely not
going to be the last on the same matter
will civilians continue to be massacred
by the implacable government of
Israel unfortunately some in this room
continue to support and defend Israel as
it commits the most despicable crimes
against humanity the world has ever seen
in recent times with
impunity it is indeed an indictment on
the UN Security Council that a
resolution has to date not been found on
this intractable conflict that has
served on the agenda of this
organization since time in
Memorial just yesterday lamenting the
inefficiency of the security Council the
SEC Secretary General remarked and I
quote since
1945 the United Nations security Council
has been a Bedrock of Global Peace and
security but the cracks in its
foundations are becoming too large to
ignore they are contributing to
deadlock stalemate and stagnation around
today's most pressing crisis end of
quote in this regard the inability of
the council to put an end to the
genocide that's continues to be carried
out by Israel against the people of God
Gaza is a case in
point Mr President Israel's impunity and
apparent political protection is not
perceived it's
real this impunity puts in puts to into
question the whole meaning of and I
quote legally binding because this
organization has adopted numerous
resolutions since the formation of the
United Nations that have been undermined
by Israel for
decades to affirm its status as a legal
delinquent immediately following its
receipt of armed support from those who
support it Israel committed yet another
Massacre on 10 August this year when it
bombed the alabin school in central Gaza
City where thousands of displaced
families had
sheltered more than 100 Palestinian
children women and men and many and many
injured as a
result the assassination of a mass
leader Dr ishma Han in Teran last month
and the continuous targeting of
civilians in Gaza will likely further
compound the situation in an already
volatile
region we hope that the investigation
into his assassination will soon be
concluded and call on all parties to
exercise the utmost restraint and avoid
any acts that would escalate tensions in
an already fragile
region Mr President as an avid believer
of the rule of law in December last year
South Africa approached the
international court of justice seeking
an order to prevent Israel from
committing genocide against the
Palestinian
People Israel defied the Court's order
and launched an offensive in Rafa once
again South Africa put its trust in the
global court system and sought
additional provisional measures to
prevent Israel's persistent acts of
genoside against the Palestinian people
in
Gaza deciding on the matter the court
proclaimed that the Palestinians have a
legal right to protection against
genocide and that South Africa had shown
that there was a real and imminent risk
of the irreparable violation of that
right
this also fell on
theirs in addition to the evidence
presented at the icj South Africa
submitted to the security Council a body
of evidence in support of its argument
that Israel is committing genocide in
Gaza this document was circulated as
s224
419 and we encourage all members all
member states to study the document
and acquaint themselves of its
content Mr President there must be an
immediate sensation of hostilities
across the whole of Gaza and all attacks
on humanitarian workers and medical
staff must cease immediately and
permanently the continued occupation of
Palestine destruction of
infrastructure obliteration of
livelihoods
displacement Collective punish M and
extra judicial assassinations will
undoubtedly make the realization of a
peaceful solution to the Palestinian
question and the situation in the Middle
East in general much more difficult to
achieve we reiterate that the
International Community cannot proclaim
the importance of international law
including the respect for the UN Charter
in some situations but not in
others the ability of Israel to Simply
ignore binding decisions from
International organizations with no
consequences is
unacceptable the council must
immediately ensure respect for its
resolutions in line with its mandate if
it's to successfully mend and I quote
the cracks in its
foundation End quotes and avert a
situation where these cracks become too
large to ignore I thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
South Africa for their
statement there are no more names
inscribed on the list of
speakers the meeting is
ajour
e for
[Music]
n
a
[Music]
n
la
[Music]
e
[Applause]
[Music]
m
fore fore
[Music]
speee with
h
[Music]
[Applause]
a
[Music]
[Applause]
L SP
on
[Music]
fore
spee
[Music]
foree
for
[Music]
speee
foree with
aome y
[Music]
[Applause]
he
n
[Music]
a
n yeah
[Music]
n
a
[Music]
he
oh
[Music]
[Applause]
ladio SS Jazz could for
[Music]
that's
for